# MSP-internship
Innovative strategies for analyzing omics data from meal studies

## Project description
Precision nutrition, or often referred to as personalized nutrition, has emerged as a paradigm with promising results that could help to improve health in the post-genome era. This paradigm has been fueled by rapid developments of novel omics technologies, which are instrumental for a success in providing data-driven solutions to guide toward healthier eating for the individual consumer as well as for improving fundamental understanding of the effects of diet on human health. The analysis of multiple and different omics data is essential to get a deeper comprehensive understanding of affected biological pathways and dependencies within individuals. Nowadays, pathway-based methods are often applied to analyze multi-omics data. The aim of the current project is to identify innovative pathway-based strategies for analyzing transcriptomic and metabolomics data to decipher the effect of a dietary intervention. First, a publicly available meal study will be selected from ArrayExpress and Metabolights, transcriptomics and metabolomics data, respectively. Thereafter the quality of the different omics data will be determined and statistical analysis will be performed using existing data analysis pipeline. Finally, three different pathway-based analyses, i.e. overrepresentation, gene set enrichment and topology-based will be applied, compared and evaluated. To this end, the project will enhance our understanding of the molecular mechanisms behind diet and health but also pave the way for the development of more targeted and effective dietary recommendations. 

## NUTRIOME
The project is part of the MSCA training network NUTRIOME on precision nutrition and post-prandial immune response (https://www.nutriome.uio.no/). 
